Doing everything in Figma sounds great.
But, I'm thinking about
with all this work.
Is there a way to make it agnostic so
it's not tied to figure?
>> Wouldn't that be lovely?
>> Are you like?
>> Most of these platforms to be honest
have got reasonable export options so
you can take them across
cross into other platforms.
But, it's always a bit janky when you do,
it is it is difficult.
I haven't found a clean way of doing it.
And I've seen people move from sketch
to figma and figma to sketch and
try and take their design systems across
and it it never worked particularly well.
I would love to give you a magic solution
to that, cuz that will be lovely.
But no,
I'm afraid nothing springs to mind, yeah.
>> So, from a developer standpoint,
what we do is we check and
call into a repository.
>> Yes.
>> And then in that repository, before
anything goes into that repository or
main code base, there's a PR review.
>> Yeah.
>> So, if I see code that's being
replicated all over the place instead
of having it one central location.
>> Yeah.
>> You were explaining in an environment
variable, and it changes everywhere else.
>> Yeah.
>> I won't let it pass.
>> No.
.
>> Is there something like that
that the product designers
can follow with Figma or a?
>> [CROSSTALK] That sounds
a really good idea.
Let's do that, Figma, let's do that.
>> Cuz, I've had designers UX
designers in particular come in.
And they're changing the color or
the hex code somewhere else where it's
well defined in an a variable and
they know that it's an invariant.
>> Yeah, it's, I know what you mean.
It's worse than even that actually, is
that you can set something as a variable,
a color as a variable, and
then you do something to the component.
I can't even tell you
what I've done sometimes.
And then suddenly it's a hex value again.
I set that as a variable.
So, it's quite compared to code,
it's all quite immature.
You design systems within these tools and
we are very much at
the mercy of the tools.
So no, there's not that level
of control over it anymore.
I'm hoping that that will come in time and
we are heading in the right direction.
But, now, from a design point of view,
we're a bit backwards compared to
developers with this stuff, sorry.
>> Thank you everybody.
I really appreciate that.
I hope it turns out to be helpful and if
I can be helping the future, let me know.
>> And someone said it feels like you
should be plugging some of your other
workshops.
>> I did you have not been
paying attention, right?
So, I've got it written
down on a bit of paper.
So, I have plugged Steve's
workshop on figma.
And development is done another one
on design systems using Storyball,
which I'd never heard of, but
looks it's zero-high equivalent.
I promoted Ben's workshop on enterprise
design systems and management.
I've mentioned numerous times my workshop
on user research and testing, right?
Which would be a really good
one to go alongside this.
I've done another one which is on.
If you have a big idea,
like you've got side project or
you're thinking I'm gonna build a SaaS app
and I'm gonna take the world by storm.
I've got a really depressing workshop
on bringing you down to earth and
ruining all your dreams, right?
Now, it's no it's a pragmatic guide
to what that process is like?
What maybe you wanna do
before you sync a lot of
hours into building something to
give it the best chance of success.
So, that's the other one.
So, that about wraps us up for the day.
If we summarize what we've covered today,
we've looked at the fundamentals
product design.
We've looked at user research and
how to go about doing that?
We've discussed prototyping and
testing our prototypes.
And then finally we've
looked at design systems.
And it's written on the screen and
I said it at the beginning, but
I will say it again.
I sincerely want to help people with this,
right?
So, drop me me an email
anytime to paul@bergwald.com.
And I would love to answer your questions.
And, because I know you do a course like
this and it all seems so, overwhelming.
And it's when you actually
come to do the nitty gritty,
all these questions come to mind.
Ask me, I don't mind answering.
I've been doing this for 30 years.
The community has given me so
much over these years.
And if I can give back, then that's great.
Thanks very much, everybody.
>> [APPLAUSE]